[MUSIC]
In this video we are going to
talk about the concept of joins.
We will talk about what they are and
explore different types of joins.
Let's start with what are joins and
how they are used within
a relational database.
Joins allow two different rows from
different tables to come together
to become one large row containing
the value from both rows.
This is why we build the relationships.
Earlier we discussed how Vlookups
are types of relationships and
allow us to append related
data to the end of a row.
The joins now replace the Vlookup through
the primary and foreign key bridges.
However, we now preserve the integrity
of table 1, while at the same time,
it prevents the need to store
data in more than 1 table.
If we did not have joins, data would
have to be captured in both tables
as opposed to only one,
increasing the likelihood of an error.
There are two primary types of joins,
one, inner join, and two, outer join.
Let's look at the first type of join,
an inner join, and
how it is used in a relational database.
An inner join refers to
the intersection of the two tables.
Let's say we have two tables, A and B.
And let's say that the data
inside of table A is 1, 2, 3,
4, and, let's say,
the data inside of table B is 3, 4, 5, 6.
Inner join of A and B would give 3, 4,
because that is where the two
tables have common data.
Notice the venn diagram
shown on the screen.
When we perform an inner join,
the result is common data.
Going back to our example of the drivers
table and the vehicle table,
the inner join would produce a table with
the data in common with the driver and
the vehicle table.
This is a nice representation of what data
we will get when we do each specific join.
Now let's look at the next type of join,
outer join.
An outer join will give
you the unions of A and
B, all the columns in A and
all the columns in B.
If something in A does not have
a corresponding data in B,
then the B portion is null,
and vice versa.
Let's say A has 1, 2, 3, 4 and B has 3,
4, 5, 6, then an outer join on A and
B will return the following data
set as shown on your screen.
Notice how all data from
both tables is brought in.
Also note how the missing data in
each data table is filled with null.
The Venn diagram has a good representation
of what data is being brought in.
The values of null are there
because it is unlinked data.
For our driver example,
the outer join would provide all
the fields from both the tables.
So for each driver, that corresponding
personal information such as sex and
from the vehicle table, make, model, etc.
If a driver did not own a car, their
vehicle identification would be null.
With outer joins, there are two sub-types,
left outer join and right outer join.
A left outer join will give all columns
in A, plus any common columns in B.
Let's say A has 1, 2, 3,
4, and B has 3, 4, 5, 6.
Then a left outer join would yield 1,
2, 3, 4.
This is because 1 and
2 already exist in table A, and
3 and 4 are common between both tables.
Notice in the result,
how we see null in the values of 1 and 2.
This is because they do not exist in B but
they do exist in A.
Again the Venn diagram is a good way to
visualize what data is being selected.
For our driver example,
the left outer join would combine all
the columns in the driver table
with corresponding common columns
from the vehicle table, for
example, driver license number.
If personal data like sex does
not exist in vehicle table,
then it will be filled in as null.
The last type of join is
the right outer join.
A right outer join will
give all columns in table B
plus any common columns in table A.
Let's say A has 1, 2, 3,
4 and B has 3, 4, 5, 6.
Then a right outer join would yield 3,
4, 5, 6, because 3 and
4 are common in both tables and
5 and 6 already exist in table B.
Again, notice how the null
value appears in the A column,
but along side of 5 and 6.
This is because 5 and
6 are present in B, but not in A.
They are unlinked rows of data.
As you can see, the right outer join and
left outer join have same functionality.
If the order of the table is
reversed when joining you will
get exactly the same
result as left outer join.
In this video,
we discussed the concept of joins and
explored different types of joins.
This concludes the basic concept that
you need to know when working with and
linking data sets.
In the next video, we will discuss
how this is done in an actual
computing environment using
a standardized language.
[MUSIC]